
What's up! This is a rar of all the ripped sound effects from Sonic Adventure 2.

These took me just about a week to rip, organize and name. Most people that rip sound effects just leave
the files as, with the file names as something like "synth_e0002_00045" usually, but I went the extra mile 
to not only name almost every sound individually, but I also put sounds that got split up in the conversion 
process back together. Some sounds are split up with two files so they can be looped, as in the first file 
is the beginning of the sound overall and the second is the loopable part. Let's say theres a rumble sound 
effect, so the first part would be called "rumble begin" and the second would be "rumble loop." I left ones
like these split up but put some other ones back together.

All the sounds for the game are stored in the .CSB file type, which is basically a folder acting as a file. Those
needed to be unpacked and once done you get .AAX files. Those needed to be converted to .ADX and finally those
.ADX files were converted to .WAVs.

There were a lot of duplicate sounds between all the .CSB sound banks. Almost every level has at least one 
sound bank that is the same between every level. For example, the sound for a GUN robot being destroyed can 
be found in pretty much every level folder. And surprisingly, the .CSB sound bank containing a lot of the
water/swimming sound effects can be found in many levels that don't actually contain any water.
Another example of this is that each character's section of Cannon's Core was it's own separate folder of sound
banks and almost every one contained the exact same sounds as each other, so I just threw them into one 'CANNON'S CORE'
folder.

Of course, individual duplicates didn't just come from duplicate sound banks.
The way the sound effects for the cutscenes work is that each cutscene (for the most part) basically had it's own
folder of sound banks. If you've played the game, you know that there are a lot of sounds that are used in many, 
if not all cutscenes. Some examples would be the most commonly used footstep sound effect and a lot of explosions
and ambience. There are also a lot of cutscenes that use sounds that are also just used in in-game play.
I've deleted as many duplicates as I could. There are quite a few rumble and explosion sound effects that sound
very similar but are slightly different, so it's hard to find them all. But I did the best job I could.

I named most sound effects, but left a few handfuls unnamed. These are just stuff like the King Boom Boo or Chao voices
that sound like gibberish to begin with. And there are actually quite a lot more Chao voices than I thought, so I 
didn't want to try giving 150+ files of Chao voices their own unique names.
Of course, even though I would say I know the game very well, I don't know where EVERY SINGLE sound effect is used,
especially if they're used for more than one thing. Because of this, I gave a lot of sounds some somewhat general
names if it wasn't something as simple as "Sonic Jump" or "Tails whistle." My goal for this was to have the entire
folder easily searchable. So if you want an explosion sound or a beep sound, you can just search by keyword.

I also organized everything into seven folders - Boss sounds, Chao sounds, Character sounds, enemy sounds,
event (cutscene) sounds, Level sound, and Misc & Menu sounds. 
There's also a small collection of voices - stuff that was used in the in-game play, like Kart Racing (both English
and Japanese) and some other stuff like the 2P Chao voices.

I had fun doing this, learning some more stuff about the game and how things are stored, and finally getting 
my hands on these sound effects. I've wanted them for years, personally.
I have a Sonic stop motion show called Sonic Stop Motion Adventures, and I can say for sure that I'll be
putting a lot of these to good use.



But it doesn't end there!
Like I mentioned, I have my stop motion show, which you can find on my YouTube channel right here:
https://www.youtube.com/user/piplupfan77

In addition to everything I make, you can also find a new video of mine there with some more sounds and stuff
from Sonic Adventure 2.
In that video's description, you'll find links to:
>this very sound effect package with everything I ripped from SA2 myself.
>the sound effect package that contains a small collection of 258 sounds I manually recorded myself before
 I knew how to rip them from the game. (This contains some looped sound effects and some Chao sounds actually sound
 better quality, so I'm including it.)
>a download for all of the English voices from the game (all of which were not ripped by me, they were uploaded
 to The Sounds Resource by Chaofanatic, but none of them were named. I went through and named every line of dialogue
 to be what the actual line is! Separated by character)

>and finally there will be a link to download one big file containing everything listed above, with the bonus of the
 music files I ripped from the game myself (you can find these songs anywhere, but I thought it'd be a cool addition
 to include the files that are used to play these songs in the game.)

The only thing left to be ripped from the game now are the Japanese voices, which I attempted to do but to no
avail. They all came out as distorted, staticy messes.


I wanted these to be as user friendly as possible, because I'm just as much of a user as anyone else out there
that's wanted these. 


Oh, and by all means use these! If you want to give credit, you can give it to Steven/Piplupfan77, but no credit
is needed. Use them all to your heart's content!



Finally, major shout-out and thank you to @SuperSonic16 on Twitter, who linked me a working version of the program
I used to do all of this. Give him a follow!


-Steven (Piplupfan77)
|-/











